🔨 WIP: feat: move to new template (#515)
jina-ai/examples: wikipedia-sentences/README.md

# Semantic Wikipedia Search with Transformers and DistilBERT

![](https://docs.jina.ai/_images/jinabox-wikipedia.gif)

## Table of contents: 
- [Overview](#overview)
- [🐍 Build it yourself and deploy with Python](#---build-it-yourself-and-deploy-with-python)
- [Overview of the files in this example](#overview-of-the-files-in-this-example)
- [Flow diagram](#flow-diagram)

> - [Next steps, building your own app](#next-steps--building-your-own-app)

Reviewer: Would look consistent to have emoticons for each heading

Reviewer 2: will make a pr for the template

- [Community](#community)
- [License](#license)

# Overview
|  |  |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Summary | This showcases a semantic text search app |
| Data for indexing | Wikipedia corpus |
| Data for querying | A text sentence  |
| Dataset used |  [Kaggle Wikipedia corpus](kaggle.com/mikeortman/wikipedia-sentences)     |
| ML model used |  [`distilbert-based-uncased`](https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased) |

This example shows you how to build a simple semantic search app powered by [Jina](http://www.jina.ai)'s neural search framework. You can index and search text sentences from Wikipedia using a state of art machine learning  [`distilbert-based-uncased`](https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased) language model from the [Transformers](https://huggingface.co) library.

# 🐍 Build the app with Python

These instructions explain how to build the example yourself and deploy it with Python. If you want to skip the building steps and just run the app, check out the Docker section below.  

## Pre requirements:
1. You have a working Python 3.7 or 3.8 environment. 

> 2. We recommend creating a [new python virtual envoriment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) to have a clean install of Jina and prevent dependency conflicts.   

Reviewer: - speling (environment)
- CaPitalizAtioN (Python)

Reviewer 2: will make a pr for the template

Author: Thanks, corrected all cases of Python to uppercase (outside of code snippets) and fixed that spelling

Author: Thanks, fixed all cases of Python and spelling

3. You have at least 2GB of free space on your hard drive. 

## Step 1. Clone the repo and install Jina

Begin by cloning the repo so you can get the required files and datasets.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/jina-ai/examples
cd examples/wikipedia-sentences
```

> On your terminal,  you should now be located in you the wikipedia-sentences folder. Let's install Jina and the other required python libraries. For futher information on installing Jina check out our [documentation](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/core/setup/). 

Reviewer: Python

Reviewer 2: will make a pr for the template

# Semantic Wikipedia Search with Transformers and DistilBERT

![](https://docs.jina.ai/_images/jinabox-wikipedia.gif)

## Table of contents: 

- [Overview](#overview)
- [🐍 Build the app with Python](#---build-the-app-with-python)
- [🔮 Overview of the files in this example](#---overview-of-the-files-in-this-example)
- [🌀 Flow diagram](#---flow-diagram)
- [🔨 Next steps, building your own app](#---next-steps--building-your-own-app)
- [🐳 Deploy the prebuild application using Docker](#---deploy-the-prebuild-application-using-docker)
- [🙍 Community](#---community)
- [🦄 License](#---license)

> # Overview

Reviewer: All of these headings should be `##` level, not `#` level. Otherwise they're enormous

Author: fixed.

|  |  |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Summary | This showcases a semantic text search app |
| Data for indexing | Wikipedia corpus |
| Data for querying | A text sentence  |
| Dataset used |  [Kaggle Wikipedia corpus](kaggle.com/mikeortman/wikipedia-sentences)     |
| ML model used |  [`distilbert-based-uncased`](https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased) |

> This example shows you how to build a simple semantic search app powered by [Jina](http://www.jina.ai)'s neural search framework. You can index and search text sentences from Wikipedia using a state of art machine learning  [`distilbert-based-uncased`](https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased) language model from the [Transformers](https://huggingface.co) library.

Reviewer: state-of-the-art

# 🐍 Build the app with Python

> These instructions explain how to build the example yourself and deploy it with Python. If you want to skip the building steps and just run the app, check out the Docker section below.  

Reviewer: Link to Docker section

Author: fixed.

## 🗝️ Requirements
1. You have a working Python 3.7 or 3.8 environment. 

> 2. We recommend creating a [new ython virtual environment](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/venv.html) to have a clean install of Jina and prevent dependency conflicts.   

Reviewer: ython?

3. You have at least 2GB of free space on your hard drive. 

## 👾 Step 1. Clone the repo and install Jina

Begin by cloning the repo so you can get the required files and datasets. If you already have the examples repository on your machine make sure to fetch the most recent version.

```sh
git clone https://github.com/jina-ai/examples
cd examples/wikipedia-sentences
```

> On your terminal,  you should now be located in you the wikipedia-sentences folder. Let's install Jina and the other required Python libraries. For futher information on installing Jina check out our [documentation](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/core/setup/). 

Reviewer: In your terminal

Reviewer: futher -> further

Author: fixed.

  * [Pre-requirements:](#pre-requirements-)
  * [Step 1. Pull the prebuild image from Docker hub and run](#step-1-pull-the-prebuild-image-from-docker-hub-and-run)
  * [Step 2. Query the data](#step-2-query-the-data)
- [Community](#community)
- [License](#license)

# Overview
|  |  |
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Summary | This showcases a semantic text search app |
| Data for indexing | Wikipedia corpus |
| Data for querying | A text sentence  |
| Dataset used |  Kaggle Wikipedia corpus     |
| ML model used | Distilbert |

This example shows you how to build a simple semantic search app powered by [Jina](http://www.jina.ai)'s neural search framework. You can index and search text sentences from Wikipedia using a state of art machine learning  [`distilbert-based-uncased`](https://huggingface.co/distilbert-base-uncased) language model from the [Transformers](https://huggingface.co) library.

# 🐍 Build the app with Python

These instructions explain how to build the example yourself and deploy it with Python. If you want to skip the building skips and just run the app, check out the Docker section below.  

## Pre requirements:

> 1. You have a working Python 3.8 environment. 

Author: Your right actually! Will adjust

```sh
git clone https://github.com/jina-ai/examples
cd examples/wikipedia-sentences
```

On your terminal,  you should now be located in you the wikipedia-sentences folder. Let's install Jina and the other required python libraries. For futher information on installing Jina check out [documentation](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/core/setup/). 

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
If this command runs without any error messages, you can then move onto step two. 

## Step 2. Indexing your data
To make life a little easier for you, you can begin by indexing a very [small dataset of 50 sentences](data/toy-input.txt)  to make sure everything is working correctly. 

```sh
python app.py -t index
```
If you see the following command, it means your data has been correctly indexed. 
```sh
Flow@5162[S]:flow is closed and all resources are released, current build level is 0
```

We recommend you come back to this step later and index the full wikipedia sentence for better results. 

To index the [full dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/mikeortman/wikipedia-sentences) (almost 900 MB) follow these steps:

> 1. Set up a [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/docs/api#getting-started-installation-&-authentication) account

Reviewer 2: Do you need to have a Kaggle account if we provide the dataset?

2. Run the script: `sh ./get_data.sh`
3. Set the input file: `export JINA_DATA_FILE='data/input.txt'`
4. Set the number of docs to index `export JINA_MAX_DOCS=30000` (or whatever number you prefer. The default is `50`)
5. Delete the old index: `rm -rf workspace`
6. Index your new dataset: `python app.py -t index`

## Step 3. 🔍 Search your data
Jina offers several different ways to search (query) your data. In this example, we show three of the most common ones. All three are optional, in a production environment, you would only choose whichever suits your use case best. 

### Using a REST API
Begin by running the following command to open the REST API interface.

```sh
python app.py -t query_restful
```

> You should open another terminal window and paste the following command. For a quick explanation of what some of these parameter mean,  `top_k`  tells the system how many documents to return. The  `data`  parameter contains the text input you want to query.

Reviewer 2: I always prefer to have these params as a table. Also the mode is not quite clear

Reviewer 2: Also 'data' is a list of queries

```sh
curl --request POST -d '{"top_k": 5, "mode": "search",  "data": ["hello world"]}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 'http://0.0.0.0:45678/search'
```

> Once you run this command, you should see a JSON output returned to you. This contains the five most semantically similar documents to the text input you provided in the data field. Feel free to alter the text in the data field and play around with other queries!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you run this command, you should see a JSON output returned to you. This contains the five most semantically similar documents to the text input you provided in the 'data' parameter. Feel free to alter the text in the 'data' parameter and play around with other queries!
```

### Using JinaBox; our frontend search interface

**JinaBox** is a light-weight, highly customizable JavaScript based front-end search interface. To use it for this example, begin by opening the REST API interface. 

```sh
python app.py -t query_restful
```

> In your browser, open up the hosted JinaBox  on [jina.ai/jinabox.js](https://jina.ai/jinabox.js/).  In the configuration bar on the left hand side, choose a custom endpoint and enter the following information  `http://127.0.0.1:45678/search` . You can type in search queries into the text box on the right hand side!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In your browser, open up the hosted JinaBox on [jina.ai/jinabox.js](https://jina.ai/jinabox.js/). In the configuration bar on the left hand side, choose a custom endpoint and enter the following: `http://127.0.0.1:45678/search` . You can type in search queries into the text box on the right hand side!
```

### Directly from terminal
You can also easily search (query) your data directly from the terminal. Using the following command will open an interface directly in your terminal window. 

```sh
python app.py -t query
```

# Overview of the files in this example
Here is a small overview if you're interested in understanding what each file in this example is doing. 

> `data/toy-input.txt` - contains a small number of sentences to test the example without downloading anything. `flows/index.yml` - contains the configuration details for indexing data. 

Reviewer 2: Split this up into 2 sentences

Reviewer 2: this is still on the same line

`flow/query.yml` - contains the configuration details for querying data. 
`pods/encode.yml` - specifies which executor should be used to encode the data. 
`pods/index.yml` - specifies which executor should be used to index and store the data. 
`test/*` - various maintenance tests to keep the example running. 
`app.py`  - the gateway code to combine the index and query flow 
`get_data.sh` - downloads the Kaggle dataset.
`manifest.yml` - needed to deploy to Jina Hub
`requirements.txt` - contains all required python libraries

# Flow diagram

Similar to the one in the pdf example. TO DO

# Next steps, building your own app

Did you like this example and are you interested in building your own? For a detailed tuturial on how to build your Jina app check out [How to Build Your First Jina App](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/my_first_jina_app/#how-to-build-your-first-jina-app) guide in our documentation. 

If you have any issues following this guide, you can always get support from our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/jina-ai/shared_invite/zt-dkl7x8p0-rVCv~3Fdc3~Dpwx7T7XG8w) .

# 🐳 Deploy the prebuild application using Docker

> If you want to run this example quickly without installing Jina, you can do so via Docker. If you'd rather build the example yourself, skip to the Python instructions below.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to run this example quickly without installing Jina, you can do so via Docker. If you'd rather build the example yourself, return to the Python instructions above.  
```

## Pre-requirements:
1. You have Docker installed and working. 
2. You have at least 8GB of free space on your hard drive. 

## Step 1. Pull the prebuild image from Docker hub and run
We begin by running the following Docker command in the terminal. This will pull the prebuilt Docker image from Docker Hub and begin downloading the required file and data. To increase speed, this example only has 30,000 sentences indexed. 

```sh
docker run -p 45678:45678 jinahub/app.example.wikipedia-sentences-30k:0.2.10-1.0.10
```

If the command has worked correctly, you should see the following output....TODO

## Step 2. Query the data

> There are several ways for you to query data in Jina; for this example, we will use a CURL command interface. You should open another terminal window and paste the following command. F

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are several ways for you to query data in Jina; for this example, we will use a CURL command interface. You should open another terminal window and paste the following command.
```

### Using a REST API
Begin by running the following command to open the REST API interface.

```sh
python app.py -t query_restful
```

You should open another terminal window and paste the following command. 

```sh
curl --request POST -d '{"top_k": 5, "mode": "search",  "data": ["hello world"]}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 'http://0.0.0.0:45678/search'
```

Once you run this command, you should see a JSON output returned to you. This contains the five most semantically similar Wikipedia sentences to the text input you provided in the 'data' parameter. Feel free to alter the text in the 'data' parameter and play around with other queries! For a better understanding of the parameters see the table below. 
|  |  |
|--|--|
| `top_k` | Integer determining the number of sentences to return |
| `mode` | Mode to trigger in the call. See [here](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/rest/) for more details |
| `data` | Text input to query |
 

### Using JinaBox; our frontend search interface

> **JinaBox** is a light-weight, highly customizable JavaScript based front-end search interface. To use it for this example, begin by opening the REST API interface. 

Reviewer: I think we're calling it "Jina Box" in most places?

Author: Done

Author: Done

### Directly from terminal
You can also easily search (query) your data directly from the terminal. Using the following command will open an interface directly in your terminal window. 

```sh
python app.py -t query
```

# Overview of the files in this example
Here is a small overview if you're interested in understanding what each file in this example is doing. 

`data/toy-input.txt` - contains a small number of sentences to test the example without downloading anything. `flows/index.yml` - contains the configuration details for indexing data. 
`flow/query.yml` - contains the configuration details for querying data. 
`pods/encode.yml` - specifies which executor should be used to encode the data. 
`pods/index.yml` - specifies which executor should be used to index and store the data. 
`test/*` - various maintenance tests to keep the example running. 
`app.py`  - the gateway code to combine the index and query flow 
`get_data.sh` - downloads the Kaggle dataset.
`manifest.yml` - needed to deploy to Jina Hub

> `requirements.txt` - contains all required python libraries

Reviewer: Might be most readable to do this as a table

Reviewer 2: will make a pr for the template

To shuffle a file on macos, please read [this post](https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/142860/install-shuf-on-os-x/195387).

## Step 3. 🔍 Search your data
Jina offers several different ways to search (query) your data. In this example, we show three of the most common ones. All three are optional, in a production environment, you would only choose one which suits your use case best. 

### Using a REST API
Begin by running the following command to open the REST API interface.

```sh
python app.py -t query_restful
```

You should open another terminal window and paste the following command. 

```sh
curl --request POST -d '{"top_k": 5, "mode": "search",  "data": ["hello world"]}' -H 'Content-Type: application/json' 'http://0.0.0.0:45678/search'
```

> Once you run this command, you should see a JSON output returned to you. This contains the five most semantically similar Wikipedia sentences to the text input you provided in the 'data' parameter. Feel free to alter the text in the 'data' parameter and play around with other queries! For a better understanding of the parameters see the table below. 

Reviewer: - 'data' -> `data`

Author: fixed.

|  |  |
|--|--|
| `top_k` | Integer determining the number of sentences to return |
| `mode` | Mode to trigger in the call. See [here](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/rest/) for more details |
| `data` | Text input to query |
 

### Using Jina Box; our frontend search interface

**Jina Box** is a light-weight, highly customizable JavaScript based front-end search interface. To use it for this example, begin by opening the REST API interface. 

```sh
python app.py -t query_restful
```

> In your browser, open up the hosted JinaBox on [jina.ai/jinabox.js](https://jina.ai/jinabox.js/). In the configuration bar on the left hand side, choose a custom endpoint and enter the following: `http://127.0.0.1:45678/search` . You can type in search queries into the text box on the right hand side!

Reviewer: - JinaBox -> Jina Box
- "type in search queries into the text box" -> "type search queries into the text box"

Author: fixed.

### Directly from terminal
You can also easily search (query) your data directly from the terminal. Using the following command will open an interface directly in your terminal window. 

```sh
python app.py -t query
```

# 🔮 Overview of the files in this example
Here is a small overview if you're interested in understanding what each file in this example is doing. 
|File   | Explanation  |
|--|--|
|📂 `flows/`  | Folder to store Flow configuration    |
|--- 📃 `flows/index.yml`  | Contains the details of which executors should be used for indexing your data. |
|--- 📃 `flows/query.yml`  | Contains the details of which executors should be used for querying your data. |
|📂 `pods/` | Folder to store Pod configurations|
|--- 📃 `pods/encode.yml`  | Specifies the configurations values for the encoding executor.   |

> |--- 📃 `[pods/index.yml`  | Specifies the configurations values for the encoding executor.   |

Reviewer: Delete the `[`

Reviewer: executor -> Executor

Author: fixed.

|📂 `test/*`  | Various maintenance tests to keep the example running.   |
|📃 `app.py`   | The gateway code to combine the index and query flow.  |
|📃 `get_data.sh`  |  Downloads the Kaggle dataset.|
|📃 `manifest.yml`   |Needed to deploy to Jina Hub.|
|📃 `requirements.txt`  |  Contains all required python libraries.|

# 🌀 Flow diagram

> This diagram provides a visual representation of the two Flows in this example. Showing which executors are used in which order. 

Reviewer: This diagram provides a visual representation of the two Flows in this example. Showing which executors are used in which order.

->

This diagram provides a visual representation of the two Flows in this example, showing which Executors are used in which order.

Author: fixed.

![116664240-7bad2500-a998-11eb-90fa-1d1268806602](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59612379/116871566-bde29a80-ac14-11eb-84d8-26b5b48dee81.jpeg)

# 🔨 Next steps, building your own app

Did you like this example and are you interested in building your own? For a detailed tuturial on how to build your Jina app check out [How to Build Your First Jina App](https://docs.jina.ai/chapters/my_first_jina_app/#how-to-build-your-first-jina-app) guide in our documentation. 

If you have any issues following this guide, you can always get support from our [Slack community](https://join.slack.com/t/jina-ai/shared_invite/zt-dkl7x8p0-rVCv~3Fdc3~Dpwx7T7XG8w) .

# 🐳 Deploy the prebuild application using Docker
If you want to run this example quickly without installing Jina, you can do so via Docker. If you'd rather build the example yourself, return to the Python instructions above.  

> ## Pre-requirements:

Reviewer: Requirements

1. You have Docker installed and working. 
2. You have at least 8GB of free space on your hard drive. 

## Step 1. Pull the prebuild image from Docker hub and run

> We begin by running the following Docker command in the terminal. This will pull the prebuilt Docker image from Docker Hub and begin downloading the required file and data. To increase speed, this example only has 30,000 sentences indexed. 

Reviewer: file -> files

Author: fixed.
